# Configuring AWS Cognito

## Prerequisites

- A cognito **user pool** already created in your AWS account.
- The `FederationMetadata.xml` file generated from **Active Directory** or **Azure Entra ID**.

> **Important**  
> This process will allow **users to login to the application via SAML provider for AD**. The process is simple but you should check that it's correctly runing once configured:
>
> 1. The chatbot application shows a button named "Login with AD".
> 2. When this button is pressed, it will redirect you to the login page for AD (if you're not already logged in).
> 3. The AD / Entra ID service will change codes for authorization tokens with Cognito via SAML.
> 4. Cognito will add this users to an **autogenerated user group**.
>
>
> If you don't see the user group created by Cognito, you'll need to created yourself with a specific name. This way cognito will be able to add federated users to this group automatically.
> Run the following command to create the specific user group. Remember to correctly assign **USER_POOL_ID** and **PROVIDER_NAME** correctly.
>
> ```bash
> aws cognito-idp describe-identity-provider \
>  --user-pool-id USER_POOL_ID \
>  --provider-name chat-ad-provider
> ```

## Configure Cognito Pool

### Add a SAML Identity Provider

1. In your user pool, in the right side menu go to **Authorization > Social and external providers**.
2. Press the button **Add identity provider** and select SAML.
3. For commodity reasons, set the provider name as `chat-ad-provider`. Leave the rest of the configurations as default.
4. Under **Metadata document** press the button **Choose file** and upload the `FederationMetadata.xml` from **Active Directory** or **Entra ID**.
5. Click on the yellow button **Add identity provider**.

---

### Configure Attribute Mapping

1. Once your **IdP** was created, go to its configuration and press **Attribute Mapping > Edit**
2. Specify exactly the following attributes:

   | User Pool Attribute | SAML Attribute (Friendly Name) | SAML Attribute (Full URI)                                            |
   | ------------------- | ------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | email               | E-Mail Address                 | `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/emailaddress` |
   | name                | Name                           | `http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/name`         |
   | username            | Name ID                        | NameID element (not a claim URI)                                     |

3. Click on **Save changes**.
4. Also, in your identity provider don't forget to download the **signing certificate** and the **metadata.xml** from Cognito.
5. Click on **View signing certificate**, a window will open, there press on **Download as .crt**. After the download, click on **Close**.
6. Now go to **Metadata document** section and press on the **metadata.xml** download link.

---

### Integrate with an App Client

1. In your user pool, in the right side menu go to **Applications > App clients**.
2. Select your app client and press **App client information > Edit**.
3. Ensure that **only** the following values are selected:
   - ALLOW_USER_AUTH
   - ALLOW_USER_PASSWORD_AUTH
   - ALLOW_CUSTOM_AUTH
   - ALLOW_REFRESH_TOKEN_AUTH
4. Click on **Save changes**
5. Now in your app client select the **Login pages** tab and press the **Edit** button.
6. In **Allowed callbacks URLs** add the callback page for your application (e.g., <https://chatbot.com/callback>)
7. In **Identity providers** select the identity provider you created (`chat-ad-provider`).
8. In **OpenID Connect scopes** ensure that **Email, OpenID** and **Profile** are selected.
9. Click on **Save changes**.

---

### Key Cognito Information

This section outlines the essential data you'll need from your Amazon Cognito user pool to configure a SAML 2.0 identity provider (IdP) in Active Directory or Entra ID.

1. In cognito userpool go to **Overview** and copy the **User Pool ID**.
2. In cognito userpool go to **Branding > Domain** and copy the **Domain**.
3. Using the information you gathered above, you'll need to construct three key endpoints:

   | Component                            | Value                                            |
   | ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------ |
   | **URN Service Provider**             | `urn:amazon:cognito:sp:USERPOOL_ID`              |
   | **Assertion Consumer Service (ACS)** | `USERPOOL_DOMAIN/saml2/idpresponse`              |
   | **Metadata URL**                     | `USERPOOL_DOMAIN/saml2/idp/metadata`             |
   | **Signing Certificate File**         | `chat-userpool.crt` file downloaded from the IdP |
   | **Metadata File**                    | `metadata.xml` file downloaded from the IdP      |

Based on your requirements, you can now proceed with the instructions for configuring either **Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS)** or **Azure Entra ID**.

## Integrate with Active Directory FS

### Creating a Relying Party Trust

1. In windows server open **Server Manager > Tools > AD FS Management**.
2. In the right sidebar, go to **AD FS > Relying Party Trusts**.
3. **Right-click** and select **Add Relying Party Trust**, keep the **Claims Aware** setting and hit **Start**.
4. On **Select Data Source** choose the **Import data about the relying party from a file**, click on **browse** and choose the location of `metada.xml` file. Hit **Next** button.
5. For the **Display Name** set a name for the Relying Party Trust (e.g., CognitoSAMLApp).
6. Continue with the creation wizard and click on **Finish**.

---

### Configuring the Relying Party Trust

1. **Right-click** on the recently created relying party trust and select **Properties**.
2. Navigate to the **Identifiers** tab. In the **Relying Party Identifier** field, paste the **URN Service Provider** URL and click **Add**.
3. **Remove** the rest of the identifiers that are not recognized or are not from Cognito.
4. Go to the **Signature** tab, click **Add**, and select the `chat-userpool.crt` file. **Remove** any other signatures that are not recognized or are not from Cognito.
5. Switch to the **Encryption** tab and click **Remove**.
6. Select the **Endpoints** tab. Locate the SAML Assertion Consumer Endpoint with index 0 and click **Edit**.
7. In the **Edit Endpoint** window, change the **Binding** to `POST`. In the **Trusted URL** field, paste the **ACS** URL you constructed using your Cognito domain. Click **OK** to save the changes.
8. Close the **Properties** window.

---

### Relying Party Trust Claims

1. **Right-click** on the created relying party trust and select **Edit Claim Issuance Policy**.
2. **Remove** any claim that are not recognized or are not from Cognito.
3. Click on **Add Rule**, all rules will use the **Send LDAP Attributes...** for the **Claim rule template**.
4. Now you'll need to add **three rules**, one by one with the following specifications. **Don't add the claims in a single rule**:

   | Rule Name | LDAP Attribute   | Outgoing Claim Type |
   | --------- | ---------------- | ------------------- |
   | email     | E-Mail-Addresses | E-Mail Address      |
   | name      | Display-Name     | Name                |
   | username  | SAM-Account-Name | Name ID             |

5. Click on **Ok** and close the window.

---

### Restart the Service

1. On Windows Server, open **Powershell** as **Administrator**.
2. On the shell, paste the command `Restart-Service adfssrv`.
3. Wait until it restarts, you can check it's status by using the command `Get-Service adfssrv`.
4. The **AD FS** integration with **Congito** should be working now.
